To WC&MP2020(0).Class.Students, [(0) on 2021.01.01], [(1) on 21.01.02]

We began by communicating with a limitation (camera's off).
And then what happened?
Do your best to close your eyes and remember the story of our time together. 
What about the moments in between?  In between what? In between the moments you remember or in between the moments we were together, or what? Yes. Now you have it.

Prosody. Fractals. Play. Friendship. Purpose. Frequency.

Balancing these concepts (and more!) in my mind while I build, more unconsciously than conscious.  And more confusing than clear.  That is how a work often begins. An idea, feeling, moment, memory, celebration, class, question, or even resistance (procrastinating on something else, I often make my best music) can all be the seed before the seed (0).wav. 

The strongest motivation always comes from within.  It is long-lasting and stubborn.  Chasing a grade or a test-score or a dollar will only get you so far.  Love, curiousity, and even anger (the Dark Side of the Force?) are far, far more powerful.

Producing music is like writing a letter.  I spent a long time thinking about what I want to say to you, but once I sit down and write, that is when the letter gets written. The words don't have to be perfect at first; it can be too long or too short, I just need to get the ideas out and see how they fit together.  Flowing thoughts from your mind as quickly as possible, without judgement, without being too focused on the product (remember, spend time TOWARDS the product; remember, producing is a verb, like writing or running, you will get better by doing it, but you can save time and learn tricks from others).  Later, once you have Flowed Your Truth out, make it sound better (editing).  One of my college professors told us, "each time I edit a paper, I will catch about 95% (more or less depending on you) of the mistakes.  Therefore, with 2 edits, you get about 99%..."  This is why our teachers recommend multiple drafts.  This is why I recommend the file-saving system of _________-_______(0)=idea seed, (1)=first draft, (2)=2nd draft.  

It has taken me years of practice, starting from a blank page and building a sonic story, to be able to conjure a new concept each time if I want.  Not all my seeds will grow into something tasty.  Some will never be exported from the program.  

Producing music is like telling a story.  You already know how.  You know how to take a whole folk-tale and present it with beginning, middle and end.  You know that visuals can help support your ideas.  You know that certain parts are the most important, most exciting, most interesting.  This is why I can tell you that you are already music producers, you just haven't spent much time swimming in the ocean (of music production). 

Getting better at Music Production is like getting better at anything.  One practices alone, plays with others, and shares their ideas and feelings.  Feedback must begin from within, your own judgement; after you have put in the work, ask someone else to listen.  Watch Youtube (or whatever) videos from your Musical Heroes talking about how they work, or showing how they made something you like. Read articles, books, and TAKE NOTES.  Better yet, USE THE KNOWLEDGE right away, make something that encodes your learning into an audio-file.  

Producing Music for the first time is like how I built this course for you.  FOR.  YOU.   Music (and any art) is an expression, a communication.  To someone.  FOR SOMEONE.  You do not need to always work alone, but you need to be ready to work WITH others, to embrace your differences and agree on a common ground to stand.  GET TO KNOW EACH OTHER.  MORE than you think necessary.  CARE about them. LISTEN TO their "pointless stories."  When it is time to produce for or with them, be present in the moment and aware that this is your chance.  

Before the first day, there is 100+ hours of preparation (this is your Piano Practice, your lessons, your random noise making and wack tracks; for me it was reading books, drawing diagrams, daily timed production sessions, and building webpages that you never saw).

On the first day, you perform and observe the reactions of your audience.  Take the feedback and rebuild.  It is often not until I have found an interesting melody or rhythm that the next idea appears.  If an idea doesn't work, maybe try it again later, in some different way, or maybe forget about it.  Each day I wrote the page for you FROM SCRATCH, responding to your questions and confusion as best I could.

Producing Music is like doing your homework, except you are the one giving the homework.  

Producing Music is like reaching into the night sky and making a necklace of the stars.

Producing Music is like listening to your own thoughts again and again and again, then sculpting them into sound and silence; cleaning, cutting out, and gluing together, sprinkling sparkles, layering and unlayering.  You need to know what is important to you.

And what was important to Tippi?
Feedback.
Questions?
Recycling.
Confusing and unconfusing?
Forming, Storming, Norming, and Performing.
Crafting an experience?
Caring!
Stories?
Masks.
Seperation of Concerns?
Focus on what you are good at.
Get on the same page?
